# Johan's Gemini Capsule

Estd. November 2020 in Düsseldorf, Germany

Last modified: 2020-11-23 at 17:45

=> about.gmi  About
=> gemlog/ Gem Log
=> journal.gmi Site Journal
=> gemroll.gmi Gemroll

## 1. Intro

This is Johan's first Gemini capsule. Bare with him while I explore the _Geminispace_.

Everything is currently hand-crafted text. This site contains mostly logs and journal on Johan's experience with getting started with Gemini.

### 1.1 Other sites

I am easily found online. Here are my personal spaces.

My homepage also has all the information to reach out to me.

=> https://johanbove.info My Home Page
=> https://social.johanbove.info My Social Site
=> gopher://gopher.johanbove.info:70 My Gopherhole (since 2019)

### 1.2 Contact

E-mail: hello@johanbove.info
PGP: 4AAE 11D0 B6A8 D5E8 (@johanbove on Keybase)

=> https://johanbove.info/E44E71105E920276ED1693294AAE11D0B6A8D5E8.asc PGP Public Key


## 2. Links

A collection of hopefully interesting related sites.

### 2.1 Gemini Info

=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/docs/faq.gmi Project Gemini FAQ
=> https://thedorkweb.substack.com/p/gopher-gemini-and-the-smol-internet

### 2.2 Gemini Software

=> gemini://gem.vectorpoem.com/server.gmi "How I set up this Gemini host" by Vectorpoem
=> https://git.sr.ht/~sircmpwn/gmnisrv gmnisrv Basic server
=> https://tildegit.org/solderpunk/molly-brown Molly-Brown Gemini server in Go
=> gemini://skyjake.fi/lagrange/ Lagrange is a desktop GUI for Gemini
=> gemini://twins.rocketnine.space/ Twins Gemini Server (running this site)

## 3. Plans

Sharing the ideas I have for this site.

* ✔ Set up my own - basic - Gemini server.
* ✔ Move the Gemini server to a more robust, complete system.
* ✔ Find out how to make Gemini pages dynamic.
* ✔ Add a Gemroll.
* Link the content from my Gopherhole here. Or copy it over?
* Find out how TLS Client certificates can be used to authenticate. -> See Molly Brown.

More to come later for sure...
Thanks for visiting! 😎

- Johan

