# Johan's Journal

Bullet-journal style notes, tidbits and blurbs.

## 2020-12-16, Wednesday

* Reinstalled "Beaker Browser" v1.1.0 and threw out all my previous files.
* Figuring out how to mirror this Gemini space on Hyperdrive.
* The Beaker Browser folder sync to Hyperdrive still has some issues on Windows, so I can only sync one way. From my PC to the Hyperdrive. Changes made on the Hyperdrive do not persist. But that's okay for now.

=> https://beakerbrowser.com/2020/12/08/beaker-1.1.html Beaker Browser v1.1
=> hyper://18a00729203eb3d60be56370ed0fcc9ce2baf784e7ba6d0bd4181de26b0df651 Hyperdrive copy of gem.johanbove.info

## 2020-12-15, Tuesday

* Reading more about the "Small Web" or "smol web", or "slow web".
* Gathering links to how TOFU on Gemini works
* Keeping my cup of tea away from the desk so I need to stand up and walk around to have a sip. I'm so out of shape since the lock-downs started.

=> gemini://talon.computer/log/small-web/ "Small Web" by Wu Wei.
=> tofu.gmi Resources on TOFU TLS

## 2020-12-14, Monday

* Had a very intense working morning and I only got a break and some lunch around 15:00.
* Feeling rather pessimistic still; I do feel better after a nice warm cup of Darjeeling tea. Trying to cut down on coffee, because tea makes me feel more relaxed.
* Received some Circles from @alanz. Thanks Dude! Not sure why I deserved them, but all positivity is welcome these days.
* Skyjake is on a role with the next Lagrange rollout as version 0.13.1!
* Enjoyed watching "Alien Worlds" on Netflix, but it's way too short! Needs more episodes stat! Loved how the show introduced me to new "famous" scientists I had never heard of before.
* Some days I only do "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade -y", enter my password and call it a day.
* Had to have the really tough conversation with my family to tell them that because of the new Covid restrictions we cannot see each other in person this Christmas. 

=> gemini://skyjake.fi/gemlog/2020-12_idns-in-lagrange.gmi Lagrange v0.13 on skyjake.fi
=> https://www.netflix.com/de-en/title/80221410 "Alien Worlds" on Netflix.com

## 2020-12-13, Sunday

* Ranting about people not following the rules during pandemics.
* Sad to see there seems to be something wrong with the gemini://konpeito.media/ site. Hopefully it's only temporarily.
* I do not know anyone in real life who owns a Gemini Space or Gopherhole. Having a sense of FOMO regarding people I know irl, as the World happily keeps on posting their stuff on FaceTwitGram and I'm not. Just feels like the corporate Web is just all most people will know of what is going on and possible on the Internet, and I find that a real shame.
* Wondering how long it will take before I see someone who I know in real life here on Gemini?
* Seems like part of Gemini will be how ephermeral Gemini Spaces and Capsules will be. It highly likely that one day a Gemini server is up and the next it isn't anymore. Part of the adventure of moving into a new space on the Web.
* Learned today about "Gitcoin.co" through the "Circles UBI" "grant" or "crowd-sourcing" - It's an intriguing scene. I'm still sceptical about the tech and I'm definitely a newbie in the crypto World. But I do understand this technology has and will have an impact on the "real world" more every day. So to not be completely left in the dark I decided to get to know the tools and the people involved.

=> /gemlog/2020-12-13-sad-christmas.gmi "Sad End Of Year festivities" post
=> gemini://konpeito.media/ Konpeito.media
=> https://gitcoin.co/grants/331/circles-ubi Circles UBI grant on Gitcoin.co
=> https://gitcoin.co/about Gitcoin.co looks like a cool place to work 😅

## 2020-12-11, Friday

* So the next full lockdown will come in effect in NRW, Germany next Wednesday, at least until January 10th.
* Had a good time with my son letting him jump in the muddy puddles. It is a joy to see him have so much fun.
* Still figuring out how to get the Planetary account show up in Oasis. Something is going wrong there.
* Had an actual fun and good time yesterday the first company Christmas party over Zoom. 

## 2020-12-10, Thursday

* Comparing HTTP, Gopher and Gemini with transportation vehicles.
* Installed the pretty cool ScuttleButt client called *Planetary* as a beta release app on my iOS phone today. It's probably the most _commercially_ oriented Scuttlebutt client. It's well made and looks great. It seems faster than ManyVerse, although I cannot really say yet if it is really faster. Reported a couple of obvious "todos" for improvements. Pretty slick.
* Meanwhile I'm not sure what is going on with *Patchwork* on my PC. It seems to be stuck in a "Scuttling" phase. Update: So I have uninstalled *Patchwork* as it seems to be causing havoc in the Scuttlebutt internals on my machine in combination with Oasis. If Oasis keeps performing nicely, I won't have the need to Patchwork anymore anyway.
* Trying out mounting an external files system using autofs and SSH after reading ew0k's instructions.

=> gemini://gem.johanbove.info/gemlog/2020-12-10-comparing_web_protocols_as_transportation.gmi "Comparing Web Protocols As Transportation Vehicles" post
=> https://planetary.social/ Planetary.social
=> gemini://tilde.team/~ew0k/posts/mount-your-tilde.gmi "Mount Your Tilde" by ew0k

## 2020-12-09, Wednesday

* Had to be Dad tonight when my son, who is almost 3, refuses to go to the potty or asks us to help him and he went full into the already full diaper. The full diaper was my mistake yes. I got upset a bit as he is capable of asking and requesting us for getting chocolates or watching video, but not for going to the bathroom. I really hope he'll get it one of these tires. We are so tired of having to deal with diapers.
* Woke up this morning after a great night thanks to a nice cup of camomille tea! I slept like a rock.
* Enjoying spending time on ScuttleButt Oasis. Talking about Minidisc and stuff.
* Thinking about trying out "The Web Minidisc Application" by Stefano Brilli.
* Wondering how long the "Gemini Space Cycle" will last? Re-reading some interesting pieces by Baud.baby on their fantastic Gopher hole.

=> https://stefano.brilli.me/webminidisc The "Web Minidisc App" by Stefano Brilli
=> gopher://baud.baby:70/0/phlog/fs20191030.txt "The Gopherspace Cycle" by baud.baby
=> gopher://baud.baby:70/0/phlog/fs20190531.txt "Gopher will not save you" by baud.baby

## 2020-12-08, Tuesday

* Really tired. Had a bad night. Going to bed now.
* Why is the *Matrix* chat network not more popular?
* Discovered my little Gemini Capsule has been indexed by the GUS.Guru search bot.
* Installed Lagrange v0.12.1
* Played a couple of "Among Us" games. Preparing for a company party. Being "The Impostor" is harder than it seems.

=> https://matrix.to/#/@jbove:matrix.org I'm @jbove:matrix.org
=> gemini://gus.guru Gemini Universal Search - gus.suru
=> gemini://lord.re/21-Among-Us.gmi French description of the "Among Us" game.

## 2020-12-07, Monday

* Love it when my son says "See you alligator" and he expects me to say "...in a while crocodile".
* Spent some time on "Secure Scuttlebutt" and the "Oasis" client.
* After my father in law stopped drinking alcohol I drank a whole lot more #alcoholfree drinks myself. And I've come to enjoy it too. We tried many different brands and kinds, but my favorite alcohol-free #beer are the ones from the German brewery "Wunderbraeu" based in München. It's probably impossible to find outside of Germany unfortunately. The brewery also prides itself about being bio, sustainable and CO2 neutral.

=> https://github.com/fraction/oasis/issues/548 Oasis issue: "Make Oasis the most accessible SSB client"
=> https://www.w3.org/TR/html-aria/ HTML-ARIA specs
=> https://github.com/fraction/oasis/issues/274 Oasis issue: "Try the new user flow"
=> https://github.com/fraction/oasis/issues/543 Oasis issue: "Width on desktops is too restrictive"
=> https://wunderbraeu.de/


## 2020-12-06, Sunday

* It is "Sinterklaas" or Saint-Nicolas today. My almost three year old has the pretty sweet situation where he is enjoying the culture of Flandres, Germany, Italy and the US. So today Sinterklaas brought him sweets and new toys since he has been a very good boy. I'm sure his friend, Santa Claus, will think of him the same in a couple of weeks.
* We went to the "Forst Graf Spee" and got a live Christmas Tree, one with roots still attached. Plan is to keep it alive as long as possible. The woods around the castle are stunning. And we enjoyed eating Goose - burgers. We had a good time outdoors!
* Put up the Christmas lights outside so we can show all our neighbours that it's the season to at least try to be a little jolly.
* We had a great day today!
* But on the other hand. I'm having weird issues with SSB Patchwork since I installed Oasis. Also Manyverse doesn't seem to sync my profile message anymore. Sigh. Peer-to-peer programming is hard. 
* Also, after unstalling some game today it seems Google Play Store experienced some form of weird corruption and I got the "Error checking for updates" error. Force quiting the Play Store and uninstalling some things I didn't need helped.
* Also uninstalled ManyVerse again as it I am honestly not enjoying use it. Too many issues with extremely long loading times, even when syncing on the same Wi-fi. I cannot afford _wasting_ my time with it any longer. So I will use "Oasis" for now to check on SSB updates occassionally. I will still keep my financial support for ManyVerse flowing, hoping the performance will improve soon with the latest changes as announced in the latest ManyVerse newsletter.

=> https://forst-graf-spee.de
=> https://github.com/fraction/oasis "Fraction/Oasis" on Github
=> https://opencollective.com/manyverse/updates/december-2020-update ManyVerse's December 2020 Newsletter

## 2020-12-05, Saturday

* Knowing how complex peer-to-peer solutions like Hyperdrives and Scuttlebutt's systems are, it's good to know we can also rely on simpler ways to keep in touch online through classic e-mail and retro protocols like Gemini and Gopher.
* Felt really gloomy and doomy today. Christmas shopping with masks on just still feels like we're stuck in a dystopian story that actually became real-life.
* Beaker Browser v1.0 doesn't want to run on my PC anymore. Not sure why not.
* Re-installed ManyVerse on my Android phone and after a couple of hours of syncing, it's almost usable again. It is cool how one can restore their access through the 24 word password phrase. Something that really get into Beaker Browser too. If only I had the time and the skills to add that in the app myself.
* Messing with folder permissions on a backup system of over 700GB of private pictures is playing with fire.
* Really impressed with Jake's work on Lagrange. Yesterday he released v0.12. Testing out the subscription feature.
* Google Recaptcha just got a whole lot more annoying with its "Click verify once there are none left.". WTF
* The lyrics of "The Number Of The Beast" by Iron Maiden really fit when Geminauts say "the web is the antichrist".

=> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WxnN05vOuSM "The Number Of The Beast (Official video) from 1982" on Youtube

## 2020-12-04, Friday

* Wanted to thank Solderpunk and the Gemini community, including the p2p (ipfs, hyperdrive, dat) and SSB communities for offering ways out of the corporate control of the Internet.
* Thinking of adding some robustness to my home server by setting up *Fail2ban* to monitor all traffic.
* Reading more about the "Sardex" currency. 

=> gemini://alexschroeder.ch/wiki/2019-01-20_fail2ban_to_watch_over_my_sites "Use fail2ban to watch over your sites" by Alex Schroeder
=> https://monneta.org/en/sardex/ Read about the "Sardex" currency of Sardinia

## 2020-12-03, Thursday

* Beaker Browser v1.0 was released!
* Watching Paul Frazee Live Code "Uplink" on his Youtube channel.
* Busy day today. N. wasn't feeling well and had to go pick him up.
* How the Internet became Meytal Cohen's stage.

=> https://beakerbrowser.com/2020/12/02/beaker-1-0.html Beaker Browser v1.0
=> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-yYKMFsKNSM Paul Frazee livecoding
=> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ouJzx76FFAI Meytal Cohen's story

## 2020-12-02, Wednesday

* Joined the CirclesUBI "Berlin" Circles Bazaar assembly today. Introduced myself and learned more about the plans with the market place.
* Updated Scuttlebutt *OASIS* client/server again on my home PC. Waiting for the indexing to finish.
* Copied over the content of my last gemlog entry by hand into an HTML page and I disliked every minute of it. Spent too much time fiddling on HTML tags and then getting the formatting right. Gemini/txt is bliss.
* Rebooted my Cabal.chat setup. I keep my own channel around. Just in case someone tries to reach out to me over the peer-to-peer p2p web.
* My family is in a state of shock of what happened in Trier yesterday. It's hard to comprehend what goes through the sick mind of a human to step into a car and to try to kill as many people as possible. This "inhuman" killed 5 people, of which a nine month old baby, the father and the mother and injured many more for life. My heart is broken. I need to believe still that most people are good and want to bring joy and love to everyone.
* Changed the background color of my social.johanbove.info site to a something more neutral. Got tired of the ugly green. And I also removed the web font which was actually totally unnecessary. Hurray for one dependency on Google less.
* Reading and watching the "SolarPunk" content gathered in the excellent "The Dork Web" article.
* Pocket released their "Best of 2020" articles list.

=> https://berlin.circles.market The Berlin Circles Market place
=> https://github.com/fraction/oasis "Fraction Oasis is a free, open-source p2p social application on Secure Scuttlebutt (SSB)"
=> https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Scuttlebutt Wiki for Secure Scuttlebutt
=> https://cabal.chat "Cabal.chat" is an experimental p2p community chat platform.
=> cabal://social.johanbove.info
=> https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/01/world/europe/germany-car-pedestrians.html Drama in Trier
=> https://social.johanbove.info
=> https://thedorkweb.substack.com/p/the-dork-web-roundup "The Dork Web Roundup"
=> https://getpocket.com/explore/best-of-2020 Pocket's "Best of 2020"

## 2020-12-01, Tuesday

* Last month of this crazy year just started of.
* Enjoying the "feed" functionality of the Lagrange. It's great how it also allows me to keep up with Gopherholes.
* Discovered James Tomasino made a pretty informative and complete video on Gemini
* Going to check out *Astrobotany* to test out TOFU (self signed certificates) in Gemini.
* It's ironic that I work on the Web for a living, writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript, while enjoying Gemini so much. I guess Gemini is providing me an escape from that.
* Astrobotany is fantastic! I love it. Started my own seedling and visited some other people's plants and watered some wilting ones. Checked out the source code and it has some fancy programming.
* The *Perkeep* Project is alive! The latest release was 2020-11-11, version 0.11 "Seattle".

=> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DoEI6VzybDk James Tomasino explains what Gemini is on Youtube
=> gemini://astrobotany.mozz.us/ Astrobotany Space Flowers
=> https://github.com/michael-lazar/astrobotany "Astrobotany" source code
=> https://perkeep.org/ "Perkeep lets you permanently keep your stuff, for life"

## 2020-11-30, Monday

* Discovered the eclectical hindi music by "Masaladosa".
* Wrote about why I think Gemini is excellent in my gemlog.
* Discovered the "awesome-gemini" collection on Github.
* I need to try to understand what DISCOS are.
* Installed the latest Lagrange v0.11 release and enjoying the "feed subscriptions".
* Solène did some pretty cool things with Gemini and FreeBSD.

=> https://www.last.fm/music/Masaladosa Masaladosa on Last.fm
=> https://github.com/kr1sp1n/awesome-gemini Awesome Gemini
=> https://hackernoon.com/last-night-a-distributed-cooperative-organization-saved-my-life-a-brief-introduction-to-discos-4u5cv2zmn "A brief introduction to discos"
=> gemini://gem.johanbove.info/gemlog/2020-11-29-lagrange-v0.11.gmi Lagrange v0.11 released
=> gemini://perso.pw/blog/index.md Solène's Blog

## 2020-11-29, Sunday

* Publishing my gemlog with the gemlog.sh script by nytpu with one addition to publish to my twtxt.txt feed.
* Changed the file names in the gemlog to be human readable.
* Decided to set the copyright license for this content to CC BY-SA 4.0
* Reading Drew Devault's Gemini capsule. He explains it well what Gemini is about in his blogpost.

=> https://tildegit.org/nytpu/gemlog.sh "gemlog.sh" by nytpu
=> https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ CC BY-SA 4.0
=> gemini://drewdevault.com/2020/11/01/What-is-Gemini-anyway.gmi Drew Devault writes "What is Gemini anyway?"

## 2020-11-26, Thursday

* Darn, I fell into a Finger protocol rabbit/gopher hole after visiting baud.baby's gopherhole. And now I'm learning all about the _inetd_ Super-Server.
* Oh hi 👋 Windows Terminal, long time no upgrade and update. Why do you want these files in chmod 755 when WSL wants them in 644? Argh! Problems when trying to mix up two different systems together.
* Fixed it by setting `git config --global core.fileMode false`.
* Id like to think of Gemini as the spaced out, more relax little nephew (or niece) from Gopher.
* I like *Nico's Gemini Capsule* structure as a wiki with files organized using tags. Going to check out their site generator.
* The *Amfora gemini client* is a pretty cool command line client. Feels up to par with Lynx already.
* It's that time of the year again where I pump myself full of sugar just to cope with the lack of daylight.
* Reading the *Gemini Mailing List* archive to catch up with the format is a good way to spend time while you're waiting for your build to finish.

=> https://debian-handbook.info/ "The Debian Administrator's Handbook"
=> https://medium.com/@tahteche/how-git-treats-changes-in-file-permissions-f71874ca239d "How git treats changes in the file permissions"
=> gemini://breadpunk.club/~bagel/ Nico's Gemini Capsule
=> https://github.com/makeworld-the-better-one/amfora Amfora Gemini Client
=> https://lists.orbitalfox.eu/listinfo/gemini The Gemini application layer protocol Mailing List

## 2020-11-25, Wednesday

* Contemplating a structure for my gemlog. Not sure how to name the files. Do I keep everything in a single folder or date-structure it?
* Really impressed by Gemini. I had fun with Gopher too, but feel more at home here in Geminispace. It's just easier to get started. No more Gophermaps and finicky formatting FTW!
* Thinking the gateway issues from yesterday could be related to simply too high of a load on the litte Raspberry Pi. How to tell?
* How does Star Wars credit work in The Mandalorian? He lands on this planet and needs to get his ship fixed and asks "How is my credit here?" and people just know. How does that work?
* Missed out on meetings because of a nap... argh. 
* Feels good to be able to help out a friend figuring out which NAS to get.
* At certain times my dyslexia really flares up, especially when I'm anxious and nervous. I literally would write a sentence and forget whole words.
* How do you keep your project's dependencies up-to-date? JavaScript projects have become incredibly complex. I still remember the good old days where JavaScript was only used to flip a gif image on an image map mouse-over.
* Added my own Twtxt.txt feed to this Gemini Capsule.

## 2020-11-24, Tuesday

* Experiencing trouble with the *Twins* Gemini server after file updates. Perhaps something went wrong with my deployment process?
* Switching back to *gminsrv* to see if it has similar issues. Perhaps twins is having some trouble keeping up with requests?
* Impressed by the make build script to generate gemroll shared by Emilis. Going to give this a go later.

## 2020-11-23, Monday

* Created the Indieweb.org/Gemini entry.
* Added a Gemroll and links page.

=> https://indieweb.org/Gemini
=> gemroll.gmi My Gemroll

## 2020-11-22, Sunday

* I've set my "gemlog" at /gemlog.
* Installing Solderpunk's "Gemfeed" and gave up because of an issue installing.
* Want to learn how to do TLS client authentication. Put it on my todo.txt list.
* Editing from Visual Studio Code on Windows instead of Vim so I can use emojis. Hey it's 2020 after all. 🙄
* Installed "Golang" on the Raspberry Pi 3.
* Changed the Gemini server to "Twins". Powerful features and easy install. In Go.
* Moving servers was really easy. Thinking of giving Molly a go next week.
* Enjoying _Lagrange_ as my Gemini client gui on Windows 10. It has a Wonderful design.
* Read the Gemini companion docs for robots.txt and subscriptions.
* Created bash shell scripts for quick publishing and posting in /gemlog. Refining as I go along.

=> gemini://gmi.skyjake.fi/lagrange/ Lagrange Gemini Client

## 2020-11-21, Saturday

* Getting started with Gemini.
* Reading all the documentation.
* Set up the gemini://gem.johanbove.info CNAME.
* Installed the _gmnisrv_ server on my Raspberry Pi 3
* Followed the instructions by Vectorpoem.
* Created initial home page and this log.
* Subscribed to the Gemini mailing list.

=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/ Project Gemini
=> links.gmi Links

──────────────────

=> / go home
