# My reasons to support Gemini

Why do I believe Gemini is great for personal Internet presences?

First of all, it's a real grass-roots initiative which I am very excited about.

If you're reading this, changes are high you are already using Gemini.

But for history reasons and to share my opinions of Gemini I would like to offer you here some views of mine.

Collecting some of the strong-points of Gemini.

## Fast and lightweight

- It works on slower hardware without any problems. Hosting on a Raspberry Pi3 is easy-peasy.
- It's very easy on the system resources.
- Optimized for low bandwidth.
- Should even work fine on a feature-phone.

## Simple yet complete

- The specifications provide enough functionality to do basically what you would expect to be able to do online.
- Even-though the syntax is limited, it still gives enough playroom for creative expression.
- Use of TLS certificates promises security.
- It supports UTF-8 character set so any language can be used to publish sites in.

## Easy to publish

- Content will be probably first of all stored in static text files which are future-proof and easy to maintain.
- Many servers already available that require minimal technical skills.
- Yes, you still need a server, but there are many collectives which you can join to facilitate this.

## Focus

- No popups, animations, videos, sound effects.
- Focus on actual content instead of fluff and effects.
- No advertisemens and commercial tracking.
- No Facebook, Google or Twitter.

## Accessible

- It's pure text, has simple navigation rules, so should be great for people with disabilities.


And on top of this, the young Gemini community is driven to make this a success!


————————————————————

=> / go home
